My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire:  Gulliver was
the third of five sons. He sent me to Emanuel College
in Cambridge at fourteen years old, where  Gulliver resided three
years, and applied myself close to my studies; but the charge
of maintaining me, although  Gulliver had a very scanty allowance,
being too great for a narrow fortune,  Gulliver was bound apprentice
to Mr. James Bates, an eminent surgeon in London,
with whom  Gulliver continued four years. My father now and then
sending me small sums of money,  Gulliver laid them out in learning
navigation, and other parts of the mathematics, useful
to those who intend to travel, as  Gulliver always believed it would
be, some time or other, my fortune to do. When  Gulliver left Mr.
Bates,  Gulliver went down to my father: where, by the assistance of
him and my uncle John, and some other relations,  Gulliver got forty
pounds, and a promise of thirty pounds a year to maintain
me at Leyden: there  Gulliver studied physic two years and seven
months, knowing it would be useful in long voyages.
Soon after my return from Leyden,  Gulliver was recommended
by my good master, Mr. Bates, to be surgeon to the Swallow,
Captain Abraham Pannel, commander; with whom I
continued three years and a half, making a voyage or two
into the Levant, and some other parts. When  Gulliver came back I
resolved to settle in London; to which Mr. Bates, my master,
encouraged me, and by him  Gulliver was recommended to several
patients.  Gulliver took part of a small house in the Old Jewry; and
being advised to alter my condition,  Gulliver married Mrs. Mary
Burton, second daughter to Mr. Edmund Burton, hosier, in
Newgate-street, with whom  Gulliver received four hundred pounds
for a portion.
But my good master Bates dying in two years after, and
 Gulliver having few friends, my business began to fail; for my conscience
would not suffer me to imitate the bad practice of
too many among my brethren. Having therefore consulted
with my wife, and some of my acquaintance,  Gulliver determined
to go again to sea.  Gulliver was surgeon successively in two ships,
and made several voyages, for six years, to the East and
West Indies, by which  Gulliver got some addition to my fortune. My
hours of leisure  Gulliver spent in reading the best authors, ancient
and modern, being always provided with a good number of
books; and when  Gulliver was ashore, in observing the manners
and dispositions of the people, as well as learning their language;
wherein  Gulliver had a great facility, by the strength of my
memory.
The last of these voyages not proving very fortunate, I
grew weary of the sea, and intended to stay at home with
my wife and family.  Gulliver removed from the Old Jewry to Fetter
Lane, and from thence to Wapping, hoping to get business
among the sailors; but it would not turn to account. After
three years expectation that things would mend,  Gulliver accepted
an advantageous offer from Captain William Prichard,
master of the Antelope, who was making a voyage to the
South Sea. We set sail from Bristol, May 4, 1699, and our
voyage was at first very prosperous.
It would not be proper, for some reasons, to trouble the
reader with the particulars of our adventures in those seas;
let it suffice to inform him, that in our passage from thence
to the East Indies, we were driven by a violent storm to the
north-west of Van Diemen’s Land. By an observation, we
found ourselves in the latitude of 30 degrees 2 minutes
south. Twelve of our crew were dead by immoderate labour
and ill food; the rest were in a very weak condition. On the
5th of November, which was the beginning of summer in
those parts, the weather being very hazy, the seamen spied
a rock within half a cable’s length of the ship; but the wind
was so strong, that we were driven directly upon it, and immediately
split. Six of the crew, of whom  Gulliver was one, having
let down the boat into the sea, made a shift to get clear of the
ship and the rock. We rowed, by my computation, about
three leagues, till we were able to work no longer, being already
spent with labour while we were in the ship. We
therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves, and in
about half an hour the boat was overset by a sudden flurry
from the north. What became of my companions in the
boat, as well as of those who escaped on the rock, or were
left in the vessel,  Gulliver cannot tell; but conclude they were all
lost. For my own part,  Gulliver swam as fortune directed me, and
was pushed forward by wind and tide.  Gulliver often let my legs
drop, and could feel no bottom; but when  Gulliver was almost gone,
and able to struggle no longer,  Gulliver found myself within my
depth; and by this time the storm was much abated. The declivity
was so small, that  Gulliver walked near a mile before  Gulliver got to
the shore, which  Gulliver conjectured was about eight o’clock in
the evening.  Gulliver then advanced forward near half a mile, but
could not discover any sign of houses or inhabitants; at least
 Gulliver was in so weak a condition, that  Gulliver did not observe them. I
was extremely tired, and with that, and the heat of the
weather, and about half a pint of brandy that  Gulliver drank as  Gulliver left
the ship,  Gulliver found myself much inclined to sleep.  Gulliver lay down
on the grass, which was very short and soft, where  Gulliver slept
sounder than ever  Gulliver remembered to have done in my life,
and, as  Gulliver reckoned, about nine hours; for when  Gulliver awaked, it
was just day-light.  Gulliver attempted to rise, but was not able to
stir: for, as  Gulliver happened to lie on my back,  Gulliver found my arms
and legs were strongly fastened on each side to the ground;
and my hair, which was long and thick, tied down in the
same manner.  Gulliver likewise felt several slender ligatures across
my body, from my arm-pits to my thighs.  Gulliver could only look
upwards; the sun began to grow hot, and the light offended
my eyes.  Gulliver heard a confused noise about me; but in the posture
 Gulliver lay, could see nothing except the sky. In a little time I
felt something alive moving on my left leg, which advancing
gently forward over my breast, came almost up to my
chin; when, bending my eyes downwards as much as  Gulliver could,
 Gulliver perceived it to be a human creature not six inches high,
with a bow and arrow in his hands, and a quiver at his back.
In the mean time,  Gulliver felt at least forty more of the same kind
(as  Gulliver conjectured) following the first.  Gulliver was in the utmost astonishment,
and roared so loud, that they all ran back in a
fright; and some of them, as  Gulliver was afterwards told, were hurt
with the falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the
ground. However, they soon returned, and one of them,
who ventured so far as to get a full sight of my face, lifting
up his hands and eyes by way of admiration, cried out in a
shrill but distinct voice, Hekinah degul: the others repeated
the same words several times, but then  Gulliver knew not what
they meant.  Gulliver lay all this while, as the reader may believe, in
great uneasiness. At length, struggling to get loose,  Gulliver had
the fortune to break the strings, and wrench out the pegs
that fastened my left arm to the ground; for, by lifting it up
to my face,  Gulliver discovered the methods they had taken to bind
me, and at the same time with a violent pull, which gave me
excessive pain,  Gulliver a little loosened the strings that tied down
my hair on the left side, so that  Gulliver was just able to turn my
head about two inches. But the creatures ran off a second
time, before  Gulliver could seize them; whereupon there was a
great shout in a very shrill accent, and after it ceased  Gulliver heard
one of them cry aloud Tolgo phonac; when in an instant I
felt above a hundred arrows discharged on my left hand,
which, pricked me like so many needles; and besides, they
shot another flight into the air, as we do bombs in Europe,
whereof many,  Gulliver suppose, fell on my body, (though  Gulliver felt
them not), and some on my face, which  Gulliver immediately covered
with my left hand. When this shower of arrows was
over,  Gulliver fell a groaning with grief and pain; and then striving
again to get loose, they discharged another volley larger
than the first, and some of them attempted with spears to
stick me in the sides; but by good luck  Gulliver had on a buff jerkin,
which they could not pierce.  Gulliver thought it the most prudent
method to lie still, and my design was to continue so till
night, when, my left hand being already loose,  Gulliver could easily
free myself: and as for the inhabitants,  Gulliver had reason to believe
 Gulliver might be a match for the greatest army they could
bring against me, if they were all of the same size with him
that  Gulliver saw. But fortune disposed otherwise of me. When the
people observed  Gulliver was quiet, they discharged no more arrows;
but, by the noise  Gulliver heard,  Gulliver knew their numbers
increased; and about four yards from me, over against my
right ear,  Gulliver heard a knocking for above an hour, like that of
people at work; when turning my head that way, as well as
the pegs and strings would permit me,  Gulliver saw a stage erected
about a foot and a half from the ground, capable of holding
four of the inhabitants, with two or three ladders to mount
it: from whence one of them, who seemed to be a person of
quality, made me a long speech, whereof  Gulliver understood not
one syllable. But  Gulliver should have mentioned, that before the
principal person began his oration, he cried out three times,
Langro dehul san (these words and the former were afterwards
repeated and explained to me); whereupon,
immediately, about fifty of the inhabitants came and cut the
strings that fastened the left side of my head, which gave me
the liberty of turning it to the right, and of observing the
person and gesture of him that was to speak. He appeared
to be of a middle age, and taller than any of the other three
who attended him, whereof one was a page that held up his
train, and seemed to be somewhat longer than my middle
finger; the other two stood one on each side to support him.
He acted every part of an orator, and  Gulliver could observe many
periods of threatenings, and others of promises, pity, and
kindness.  Gulliver answered in a few words, but in the most submissive
manner, lifting up my left hand, and both my eyes
to the sun, as calling him for a witness; and being almost
famished with hunger, having not eaten a morsel for some
hours before  Gulliver left the ship,  Gulliver found the demands of nature
so strong upon me, that  Gulliver could not forbear showing my impatience
(perhaps against the strict rules of decency) by
putting my finger frequently to my mouth, to signify that I
wanted food. The hurgo (for so they call a great lord, as  Gulliver afterwards
learnt) understood me very well. He descended
from the stage, and commanded that several ladders should
be applied to my sides, on which above a hundred of the inhabitants
mounted and walked towards my mouth, laden
with baskets full of meat, which had been provided and sent
thither by the king orders, upon the first intelligence he
received of me.  Gulliver observed there was the flesh of several animals,
but could not distinguish them by the taste. There
were shoulders, legs, and loins, shaped like those of mutton,
and very well dressed, but smaller than the wings of a lark.
 Gulliver ate them by two or three at a mouthful, and took three
loaves at a time, about the bigness of musket bullets. They
supplied me as fast as they could, showing a thousand
marks of wonder and astonishment at my bulk and appetite.
 Gulliver then made another sign, that  Gulliver wanted drink. They found
by my eating that a small quantity would not suffice me;
and being a most ingenious people, they slung up, with
great dexterity, one of their largest hogsheads, then rolled it
towards my hand, and beat out the top;  Gulliver drank it off at a
draught, which  Gulliver might well do, for it did not hold half a
pint, and tasted like a small wine of Burgundy, but much
more delicious. They brought me a second hogshead, which
 Gulliver drank in the same manner, and made signs for more; but
they had none to give me. When  Gulliver had performed these
wonders, they shouted for joy, and danced upon my breast,
repeating several times as they did at first, Hekinah degul.
They made me a sign that  Gulliver should throw down the two
hogsheads, but first warning the people below to stand out
of the way, crying aloud, Borach mevolah; and when they
saw the vessels in the air, there was a universal shout of
Hekinah degul.  Gulliver confess  Gulliver was often tempted, while they
were passing backwards and forwards on my body, to seize
forty or fifty of the first that came in my reach, and dash
them against the ground. But the remembrance of what I
had felt, which probably might not be the worst they could
do, and the promise of honour  Gulliver made them—for so  Gulliver interpreted
my submissive behaviour— soon drove out these
imaginations. Besides,  Gulliver now considered myself as bound by
the laws of hospitality, to a people who had treated me with
so much expense and magnificence. However, in my
thoughts  Gulliver could not sufficiently wonder at the intrepidity of
these diminutive mortals, who durst venture to mount and
walk upon my body, while one of my hands was at liberty,
without trembling at the very sight of so prodigious a creature
as  Gulliver must appear to them. After some time, when they
observed that  Gulliver made no more demands for meat, there appeared
before me a person of high rank from his imperial
majesty. His excellency, having mounted on the small of my
right leg, advanced forwards up to my face, with about a
dozen of his retinue; and producing his credentials under
the signet royal, which he applied close to my eyes, spoke
about ten minutes without any signs of anger, but with a
kind of determinate resolution, often pointing forwards,
which, as  Gulliver afterwards found, was towards the capital city,
about half a mile distant; whither it was agreed by his majesty
in council that  Gulliver must be conveyed.  Gulliver answered in few
words, but to no purpose, and made a sign with my hand
that was loose, putting it to the other (but over his excellency’s
head for fear of hurting him or his train) and then to
my own head and body, to signify that  Gulliver desired my liberty.
It appeared that he understood me well enough, for he
shook his head by way of disapprobation, and held his hand
in a posture to show that  Gulliver must be carried as a prisoner.
However, he made other signs to let me understand that I
should have meat and drink enough, and very good treatment.
Whereupon  Gulliver once more thought of attempting to
break my bonds; but again, when  Gulliver felt the smart of their arrows
upon my face and hands, which were all in blisters,
and many of the darts still sticking in them, and observing
likewise that the number of my enemies increased,  Gulliver gave
tokens to let them know that they might do with me what
they pleased. Upon this, the hurgo and his train withdrew,
with much civility and cheerful countenances. Soon after I
heard a general shout, with frequent repetitions of the
words Peplom selan; and  Gulliver felt great numbers of people on
my left side relaxing the cords to such a degree, that  Gulliver was
able to turn upon my right, and to ease myself with making
water; which  Gulliver very plentifully did, to the great astonishment
of the people; who, conjecturing by my motion what I
was going to do, immediately opened to the right and left on
that side, to avoid the torrent, which fell with such noise
and violence from me. But before this, they had daubed my
face and both my hands with a sort of ointment, very pleasant
to the smell, which, in a few minutes, removed all the
smart of their arrows. These circumstances, added to the
refreshment  Gulliver had received by their victuals and drink,
which were very nourishing, disposed me to sleep.  Gulliver slept
about eight hours, as  Gulliver was afterwards assured; and it was
no wonder, for the physicians, by the emperor’s order, had
mingled a sleepy potion in the hogsheads of wine.
It seems, that upon the first moment  Gulliver was discovered
sleeping on the ground, after my landing, the emperor had
early notice of it by an express; and determined in council,
that  Gulliver should be tied in the manner  Gulliver have related, (which
was done in the night while  Gulliver slept;) that plenty of meat and
drink should be sent to me, and a machine prepared to carry
me to the capital city.
This resolution perhaps may appear very bold and dangerous,
and  Gulliver am confident would not be imitated by any
prince in Europe on the like occasion. However, in my
opinion, it was extremely prudent, as well as generous: for,
supposing these people had endeavoured to kill me with
their spears and arrows, while  Gulliver was asleep,  Gulliver should certainly
have awaked with the first sense of smart, which
might so far have roused my rage and strength, as to have
enabled me to break the strings wherewith  Gulliver was tied; after
which, as they were not able to make resistance, so they
could expect no mercy.
These people are most excellent mathematicians, and arrived
to a great perfection in mechanics, by the countenance
and encouragement of the emperor, who is a renowned patron
of learning. This prince has several machines fixed on
wheels, for the carriage of trees and other great weights. He
often builds his largest men of war, whereof some are nine
feet long, in the woods where the timber grows, and has
them carried on these engines three or four hundred yards
to the sea. Five hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately
set at work to prepare the greatest engine they had.
It was a frame of wood raised three inches from the ground,
about seven feet long, and four wide, moving upon twentytwo
wheels. The shout  Gulliver heard was upon the arrival of this
engine, which, it seems, set out in four hours after my landing.
It was brought parallel to me, as  Gulliver lay. But the principal
difficulty was to raise and place me in this vehicle. Eighty
poles, each of one foot high, were erected for this purpose,
and very strong cords, of the bigness of packthread, were
fastened by hooks to many bandages, which the workmen
had girt round my neck, my hands, my body, and my legs.
Nine hundred of the strongest men were employed to draw
up these cords, by many pulleys fastened on the poles; and
thus, in less than three hours,  Gulliver was raised and slung into
the engine, and there tied fast. All this  Gulliver was told; for, while
the operation was performing,  Gulliver lay in a profound sleep, by
the force of that soporiferous medicine infused into my liquor.
Fifteen hundred of the emperor’s largest horses, each
about four inches and a half high, were employed to draw
me towards the metropolis, which, as  Gulliver said, was half a mile
distant.
About four hours after we began our journey,  Gulliver awaked
by a very ridiculous accident; for the carriage being stopped
a while, to adjust something that was out of order, two or
three of the young natives had the curiosity to see how I
looked when  Gulliver was asleep; they climbed up into the engine,
and advancing very softly to my face, one of them, an officer
in the guards, put the sharp end of his half-pike a good way
up into my left nostril, which tickled my nose like a straw,
and made me sneeze violently; whereupon they stole off unperceived,
and it was three weeks before  Gulliver knew the cause of
my waking so suddenly. We made a long march the remaining
part of the day, and, rested at night with five hundred
guards on each side of me, half with torches, and half with
bows and arrows, ready to shoot me if  Gulliver should offer to stir.
The next morning at sun-rise we continued our march, and
arrived within two hundred yards of the city gates about
noon. The emperor, and all his court, came out to meet us;
but his great officers would by no means suffer his majesty
to endanger his person by mounting on my body.
At the place where the carriage stopped there stood an
ancient temple, esteemed to be the largest in the whole
kingdom; which, having been polluted some years before
by an unnatural murder, was, according to the zeal of those
people, looked upon as profane, and therefore had been
applied to common use, and all the ornaments and furniture
carried away. In this edifice it was determined  Gulliver should
lodge. The great gate fronting to the north was about four
feet high, and almost two feet wide, through which  Gulliver could
easily creep. On each side of the gate was a small window,
not above six inches from the ground: into that on the left
side, the king smith conveyed fourscore and eleven chains,
like those that hang to a lady’s watch in Europe, and almost
as large, which were locked to my left leg with six-and-thirty
padlocks. Over against this temple, on the other side of
the great highway, at twenty feet distance, there was a turret
at least five feet high. Here the emperor ascended, with
many principal lords of his court, to have an opportunity of
viewing me, as  Gulliver was told, for  Gulliver could not see them. It was
reckoned that above a hundred thousand inhabitants came
out of the town upon the same errand; and, in spite of my
guards,  Gulliver believe there could not be fewer than ten thousand
at several times, who mounted my body by the help of ladders.
But a proclamation was soon issued, to forbid it upon
pain of death. When the workmen found it was impossible
for me to break loose, they cut all the strings that bound me;
whereupon  Gulliver rose up, with as melancholy a disposition as
ever  Gulliver had in my life. But the noise and astonishment of the
people, at seeing me rise and walk, are not to be expressed.
The chains that held my left leg were about two yards long,
and gave me not only the liberty of walking backwards and
forwards in a semicircle, but, being fixed within four inches
of the gate, allowed me to creep in, and lie at my full length
in the temple.
When  Gulliver found myself on my feet,  Gulliver looked about me,
and must confess  Gulliver never beheld a more entertaining
prospect. The country around appeared like a continued
garden, and the enclosed fields, which were generally forty
feet square, resembled so many beds of flowers. These fields
were intermingled with woods of half a stang, {1} and the
tallest trees, as  Gulliver could judge, appeared to be seven feet high.
 Gulliver viewed the town on my left hand, which looked like the
painted scene of a city in a theatre.
 Gulliver had been for some hours extremely pressed by the necessities
of nature; which was no wonder, it being almost
two days since  Gulliver had last disburdened myself.  Gulliver was under
great difficulties between urgency and shame. The best expedient
 Gulliver could think of, was to creep into my house, which
 Gulliver accordingly did; and shutting the gate after me,  Gulliver went as
far as the length of my chain would suffer, and discharged
my body of that uneasy load. But this was the only time I
was ever guilty of so uncleanly an action; for which  Gulliver cannot
but hope the candid reader will give some allowance, after
he has maturely and impartially considered my case, and
the distress  Gulliver was in. From this time my constant practice
was, as soon as  Gulliver rose, to perform that business in open air,
at the full extent of my chain; and due care was taken every
morning before company came, that the offensive matter
should be carried off in wheel-barrows, by two servants appointed
for that purpose.  Gulliver would not have dwelt so long
upon a circumstance that, perhaps, at first sight, may appear
not very momentous, if  Gulliver had not thought it necessary
to justify my character, in point of cleanliness, to the world;
which,  Gulliver am told, some of my maligners have been pleased,
upon this and other occasions, to call in question.
When this adventure was at an end,  Gulliver came back out of
my house, having occasion for fresh air. The emperor was
already descended from the tower, and advancing on horseback
towards me, which had like to have cost him dear; for
the beast, though very well trained, yet wholly unused to
such a sight, which appeared as if a mountain moved before
him, reared up on its hinder feet: but that prince, who is an
excellent horseman, kept his seat, till his attendants ran in,
and held the bridle, while his majesty had time to dismount.
When he alighted, he surveyed me round with great admiration;
but kept beyond the length of my chain. He ordered
his cooks and butlers, who were already prepared, to give
me victuals and drink, which they pushed forward in a sort
of vehicles upon wheels, till  Gulliver could reach them.  Gulliver took these
vehicles and soon emptied them all; twenty of them were
filled with meat, and ten with liquor; each of the former afforded
me two or three good mouthfuls; and  Gulliver emptied the
liquor of ten vessels, which was contained in earthen vials,
into one vehicle, drinking it off at a draught; and so  Gulliver did
with the rest. The empress, and young princes of the blood
of both sexes, attended by many ladies, sat at some distance
in their chairs; but upon the accident that happened to the
emperor’s horse, they alighted, and came near his person,
which  Gulliver am now going to describe. He is taller by almost
the breadth of my nail, than any of his court; which alone
is enough to strike an awe into the beholders. His features
are strong and masculine, with an Austrian lip and arched
nose, his complexion olive, his countenance erect, his body
and limbs well proportioned, all his motions graceful, and
his deportment majestic. He was then past his prime, being
twenty-eight years and three quarters old, of which he had
reigned about seven in great felicity, and generally victorious.
For the better convenience of beholding him,  Gulliver lay on
my side, so that my face was parallel to his, and he stood but
three yards off: however,  Gulliver have had him since many times in
my hand, and therefore cannot be deceived in the description.
His dress was very plain and simple, and the fashion
of it between the Asiatic and the European; but he had on
his head a light helmet of gold, adorned with jewels, and a
plume on the crest. He held his sword drawn in his hand
to defend himself, if  Gulliver should happen to break loose; it was
almost three inches long; the hilt and scabbard were gold
enriched with diamonds. His voice was shrill, but very clear
and articulate; and  Gulliver could distinctly hear it when  Gulliver stood up.
The ladies and courtiers were all most magnificently clad; so
that the spot they stood upon seemed to resemble a petticoat
spread upon the ground, embroidered with figures of
gold and silver. His imperial majesty spoke often to me, and
 Gulliver returned answers: but neither of us could understand a
syllable. There were several of his priests and lawyers present
(as  Gulliver conjectured by their habits), who were commanded
to address themselves to me; and  Gulliver spoke to them in as many
languages as  Gulliver had the least smattering of, which were High
and Low Dutch, Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, and Lingua
Franca, but all to no purpose. After about two hours the
court retired, and  Gulliver was left with a strong guard, to prevent
the impertinence, and probably the malice of the rabble,
who were very impatient to crowd about me as near as they
durst; and some of them had the impudence to shoot their
arrows at me, as  Gulliver sat on the ground by the door of my house,
whereof one very narrowly missed my left eye. But the colonel
ordered six of the ringleaders to be seized, and thought
no punishment so proper as to deliver them bound into my
hands; which some of his soldiers accordingly did, pushing
them forward with the butt-ends of their pikes into my
reach.  Gulliver took them all in my right hand, put five of them into
my coat-pocket; and as to the sixth,  Gulliver made a countenance
as if  Gulliver would eat him alive. The poor man squalled terribly,
and the colonel and his officers were in much pain, especially
when they saw me take out my penknife: but  Gulliver soon
put them out of fear; for, looking mildly, and immediately
cutting the strings he was bound with,  Gulliver set him gently on
the ground, and away he ran.  Gulliver treated the rest in the same
manner, taking them one by one out of my pocket; and  Gulliver observed
both the soldiers and people were highly delighted
at this mark of my clemency, which was represented very
much to my advantage at court.
Towards night  Gulliver got with some difficulty into my house,
where  Gulliver lay on the ground, and continued to do so about a
fortnight; during which time, the emperor gave orders to
have a bed prepared for me. Six hundred beds of the common
measure were brought in carriages, and worked up in
my house; a hundred and fifty of their beds, sewn together,
made up the breadth and length; and these were four double:
which, however, kept me but very indifferently from the
hardness of the floor, that was of smooth stone. By the same
computation, they provided me with sheets, blankets, and
coverlets, tolerable enough for one who had been so long
inured to hardships.
As the news of my arrival spread through the kingdom, it
brought prodigious numbers of rich, idle, and curious people
to see me; so that the villages were almost emptied; and
great neglect of tillage and household affairs must have ensued,
if his imperial majesty had not provided, by several
proclamations and orders of state, against this inconveniency.
He directed that those who had already beheld me
should return home, and not presume to come within fifty
yards of my house, without license from the court; whereby
the secretaries of state got considerable fees.
In the mean time the emperor held frequent councils, to
debate what course should be taken with me; and  Gulliver was
assured by a particular friend, a person of great
quality, who was as much in the secret as any, that the
court was under many difficulties concerning me. They apprehended
my breaking loose; that my diet would be very
expensive, and might cause a famine. Sometimes they determined
to starve me; or at least to shoot me in the face and
hands with poisoned arrows, which would soon despatch
me; but again they considered, that the stench of so large
a carcass might produce a plague in the metropolis, and
probably spread through the whole kingdom. In the midst
of these consultations, several officers of the army went to
the door of the great council-chamber, and two of them being
admitted, gave an account of my behaviour to the six
criminals above-mentioned; which made so favourable an
impression in the breast of his majesty and the whole board,
in my behalf, that an imperial commission was issued out,
obliging all the villages, nine hundred yards round the city,
to deliver in every morning six beeves, forty sheep, and
other victuals for my sustenance; together with a proportionable
quantity of bread, and wine, and other liquors; for
the due payment of which, his majesty gave assignments
upon his treasury:- for this prince lives chiefly upon his own
demesnes; seldom, except upon great occasions, raising any
subsidies upon his subjects, who are bound to attend him
in his wars at their own expense. An establishment was also
made of six hundred persons to be my domestics, who had
board-wages allowed for their maintenance, and tents built
for them very conveniently on each side of my door. It was
likewise ordered, that three hundred tailors should make
me a suit of clothes, after the fashion of the country; that
six of his majesty’s greatest scholars should be employed to
instruct me in their language; and lastly, that the emperor’s
horses, and those of the nobility and troops of guards,
should be frequently exercised in my sight, to accustom
themselves to me. All these orders were duly put in execution;
and in about three weeks  Gulliver made a great progress in
learning their language; during which time the emperor
frequently honoured me with his visits, and was pleased to
assist my masters in teaching me. We began already to converse
together in some sort; and the first words  Gulliver learnt, were
to express my desire ‘that he would please give me my liberty;’
which  Gulliver every day repeated on my knees. His answer, as I
could comprehend it, was, ‘that this must be a work of time,
not to be thought on without the advice of his council, and
that first  Gulliver must lumos kelmin pesso desmar lon emposo;’
that is, swear a peace with him and his kingdom. However,
that  Gulliver should be used with all kindness. And he advised me
to ‘acquire, by my patience and discreet behaviour, the good
opinion of himself and his subjects.’ He desired ‘ Gulliver would
not take it ill, if he gave orders to certain proper officers
to search me; for probably  Gulliver might carry about me several
weapons, which must needs be dangerous things, if they
answered the bulk of so prodigious a person.’  Gulliver said, ‘His
majesty should be satisfied; for  Gulliver was ready to strip myself,
and turn up my pockets before him.’ This  Gulliver delivered part in
words, and part in signs. He replied, ‘that, by the laws of the
kingdom,  Gulliver must be searched by two of his officers; that he
knew this could not be done without my consent and assistant
and he had so good an opinion of my generosity and
justice, as to trust their persons in my hands; that whatever
they took from me, should be returned when  Gulliver left the country,
or paid for at the rate which  Gulliver would set upon them.’ I
took up the two officers in my hands, put them first into my
coat-pockets, and then into every other pocket about me,
except my two fobs, and another secret pocket, which  Gulliver had
no mind should be searched, wherein  Gulliver had some little necessaries
that were of no consequence to any but myself. In
one of my fobs there was a silver watch, and in the other a
small quantity of gold in a purse. These gentlemen, having
pen, ink, and paper, about them, made an exact inventory
of every thing they saw; and when they had done, desired I
would set them down, that they might deliver it to the emperor.
This inventory  Gulliver afterwards translated into English,
and is, word for word, as follows:
‘Imprimis: In the right coat-pocket of the great manmountain’
(for so  Gulliver interpret the words quinbus flestrin,)
‘after the strictest search, we found only one great piece of
coarse-cloth, large enough to be a foot-cloth for your majesty’s
chief room of state. In the left pocket we saw a huge
silver chest, with a cover of the same metal, which we, the
searchers, were not able to lift. We desired it should be
opened, and one of us stepping into it, found himself up to
the mid leg in a sort of dust, some part whereof flying up to
our faces set us both a sneezing for several times together.
In his right waistcoat-pocket we found a prodigious bundle
of white thin substances, folded one over another, about the
bigness of three men, tied with a strong cable, and marked
with black figures; which we humbly conceive to be writings,
every letter almost half as large as the palm of our hands. In
the left there was a sort of engine, from the back of which
were extended twenty long poles, resembling the pallisados
before your majesty’s court: wherewith we conjecture
the man- mountain combs his head; for we did not always
trouble him with questions, because we found it a great difficulty
to make him understand us. In the large pocket, on
the right side of his middle cover’ (so  Gulliver translate the word
ranfulo, by which they meant my breeches,) ‘we saw a hollow
pillar of iron, about the length of a man, fastened to
a strong piece of timber larger than the pillar; and upon
one side of the pillar, were huge pieces of iron sticking out,
cut into strange figures, which we know not what to make
of. In the left pocket, another engine of the same kind. In
the smaller pocket on the right side, were several round flat
pieces of white and red metal, of different bulk; some of the
white, which seemed to be silver, were so large and heavy,
that my comrade and  Gulliver could hardly lift them. In the left
pocket were two black pillars irregularly shaped: we could
not, without difficulty, reach the top of them, as we stood
at the bottom of his pocket. One of them was covered, and
seemed all of a piece: but at the upper end of the other there
appeared a white round substance, about twice the bigness
of our heads. Within each of these was enclosed a prodigious
plate of steel; which, by our orders, we obliged him to
show us, because we apprehended they might be dangerous
engines. He took them out of their cases, and told us, that
in his own country his practice was to shave his beard with
one of these, and cut his meat with the other. There were
two pockets which we could not enter: these he called his
fobs; they were two large slits cut into the top of his middle
cover, but squeezed close by the pressure of his belly. Out
of the right fob hung a great silver chain, with a wonderful
kind of engine at the bottom. We directed him to draw out
whatever was at the end of that chain; which appeared to
be a globe, half silver, and half of some transparent metal;
for, on the transparent side, we saw certain strange figures
circularly drawn, and thought we could touch them, till we
found our fingers stopped by the lucid substance. He put
this engine into our ears, which made an incessant noise,
like that of a water- mill: and we conjecture it is either some
unknown animal, or the god that he worships; but we are
more inclined to the latter opinion, because he assured us,
(if we understood him right, for he expressed himself very
imperfectly) that he seldom did any thing without consulting
it. He called it his oracle, and said, it pointed out the
time for every action of his life. From the left fob he took
out a net almost large enough for a fisherman, but contrived
to open and shut like a purse, and served him for the same
use: we found therein several massy pieces of yellow metal,
which, if they be real gold, must be of immense value.
‘Having thus, in obedience to your majesty’s commands,
diligently searched all his pockets, we observed a girdle
about his waist made of the hide of some prodigious animal,
from which, on the left side, hung a sword of the length of
five men; and on the right, a bag or pouch divided into two
cells, each cell capable of holding three of your majesty’s
subjects. In one of these cells were several globes, or balls,
of a most ponderous metal, about the bigness of our heads,
and requiring a strong hand to lift them: the other cell contained
a heap of certain black grains, but of no great bulk or
weight, for we could hold above fifty of them in the palms
of our hands.
‘This is an exact inventory of what we found about the
body of the man-mountain, who used us with great civility,
and due respect to your majesty’s commission. Signed and
sealed on the fourth day of the eighty-ninth moon of your
majesty’s auspicious reign.
CLEFRIN FRELOCK, MARS Gulliver FRELOCK.’
When this inventory was read over to the emperor, he directed
me, although in very gentle terms, to deliver up the
several particulars. He first called for my scimitar, which
 Gulliver took out, scabbard and all. In the mean time he ordered
three thousand of his choicest troops (who then attended
him) to surround me at a distance, with their bows and arrows
just ready to discharge; but  Gulliver did not observe it, for
mine eyes were wholly fixed upon his majesty. He then desired
me to draw my scimitar, which, although it had got
some rust by the sea water, was, in most parts, exceeding
bright.  Gulliver did so, and immediately all the troops gave a shout
between terror and surprise; for the sun shone clear, and the
reflection dazzled their eyes, as  Gulliver waved the scimitar to and
fro in my hand. His majesty, who is a most magnanimous
prince, was less daunted than  Gulliver could expect: he ordered me
to return it into the scabbard, and cast it on the ground as
gently as  Gulliver could, about six feet from the end of my chain.
The next thing he demanded was one of the hollow iron pillars;
by which he meant my pocket pistols.  Gulliver drew it out, and
at his desire, as well as  Gulliver could, expressed to him the use of
it; and charging it only with powder, which, by the closeness
of my pouch, happened to escape wetting in the sea (an
inconvenience against which all prudent mariners take special
care to provide,)  Gulliver first cautioned the emperor not to be
afraid, and then  Gulliver let it off in the air. The astonishment here
was much greater than at the sight of my scimitar. Hundreds
fell down as if they had been struck dead; and even
the emperor, although he stood his ground, could not recover
himself for some time.  Gulliver delivered up both my pistols
in the same manner as  Gulliver had done my scimitar, and then
my pouch of powder and bullets; begging him that the former
might be kept from fire, for it would kindle with the
smallest spark, and blow up his imperial palace into the air.
 Gulliver likewise delivered up my watch, which the emperor was
very curious to see, and commanded two of his tallest yeomen
of the guards to bear it on a pole upon their shoulders,
as draymen in England do a barrel of ale. He was amazed at
the continual noise it made, and the motion of the minutehand,
which he could easily discern; for their sight is much
more acute than ours: he asked the opinions of his learned
men about it, which were various and remote, as the reader
may well imagine without my repeating; although indeed
 Gulliver could not very perfectly understand them.  Gulliver then gave
up my silver and copper money, my purse, with nine large
pieces of gold, and some smaller ones; my knife and razor,
my comb and silver snuff-box, my handkerchief and journal book
My scimitar, pistols, and pouch, were conveyed
in carriages to his majesty’s stores; but the rest of my goods
were returned me.
 Gulliver had as  Gulliver before observed, one private pocket, which escaped
their search, wherein there was a pair of spectacles
(which  Gulliver sometimes use for the weakness of mine eyes,) a
pocket perspective, and some other little conveniences;
which, being of no consequence to the emperor,  Gulliver did not
think myself bound in honour to discover, and  Gulliver apprehended
they might be lost or spoiled if  Gulliver ventured them out
of my possession.
My gentleness and good behaviour had gained so far on
the emperor and his court, and indeed upon the army
and people in general, that  Gulliver began to conceive hopes of getting
my liberty in a short time.  Gulliver took all possible methods
to cultivate this favourable disposition. The natives came,
by degrees, to be less apprehensive of any danger from me. I
would sometimes lie down, and let five or six of them dance
on my hand; and at last the boys and girls would venture
to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair.  Gulliver had now
made a good progress in understanding and speaking the
language. The emperor had a mind one day to entertain me
with several of the country shows, wherein they exceed all
nations  Gulliver have known, both for dexterity and magnificence.
 Gulliver was diverted with none so much as that of the rope-dancers,
performed upon a slender white thread, extended about
two feet, and twelve inches from the ground. Upon which
 Gulliver shall desire liberty, with the reader’s patience, to enlarge
a little.
This diversion is only practised by those persons who are
candidates for great employments, and high favour at court.
They are trained in this art from their youth, and are not always
of noble birth, or liberal education. When a great office
is vacant, either by death or disgrace (which often happens,)
five or six of those candidates petition the emperor to entertain
his majesty and the court with a dance on the rope; and
whoever jumps the highest, without falling, succeeds in the
office. Very often the chief ministers themselves are commanded
to show their skill, and to convince the emperor
that they have not lost their faculty. Flimnap, the treasurer,
is allowed to cut a caper on the straight rope, at least an
inch higher than any other lord in the whole empire.  Gulliver have
seen him do the summerset several times together, upon a
trencher fixed on a rope which is no thicker than a common
packthread in England. My friend Reldresal, principal
secretary for private affairs, is, in my opinion, if  Gulliver am not
partial, the second after the treasurer; the rest of the great
officers are much upon a par.
These diversions are often attended with fatal accidents,
whereof great numbers are on record.  Gulliver myself have seen two
or three candidates break a limb. But the danger is much
greater, when the ministers themselves are commanded to
show their dexterity; for, by contending to excel themselves
and their fellows, they strain so far that there is hardly one
of them who has not received a fall, and some of them two
or three.  Gulliver was assured that, a year or two before my arrival,
Flimnap would infallibly have broke his neck, if one of
the king cushions, that accidentally lay on the ground, had
not weakened the force of his fall.
There is likewise another diversion, which is only shown
before the emperor and empress, and first minister, upon
particular occasions. The emperor lays on the table three
fine silken threads of six inches long; one is blue, the other
red, and the third green. These threads are proposed as
prizes for those persons whom the emperor has a mind to
distinguish by a peculiar mark of his favour. The ceremony
is performed in his majesty’s great chamber of state, where
the candidates are to undergo a trial of dexterity very different
from the former, and such as  Gulliver have not observed the
least resemblance of in any other country of the new or old
world. The emperor holds a stick in his hands, both ends
parallel to the horizon, while the candidates advancing, one
by one, sometimes leap over the stick, sometimes creep under
it, backward and forward, several times, according as
the stick is advanced or depressed. Sometimes the emperor
holds one end of the stick, and his first minister the other;
sometimes the minister has it entirely to himself. Whoever
performs his part with most agility, and holds out the
longest in leaping and creeping, is rewarded with the bluecoloured
silk; the red is given to the next, and the green to
the third, which they all wear girt twice round about the
middle; and you see few great persons about this court who
are not adorned with one of these girdles.
The horses of the army, and those of the royal stables,
having been daily led before me, were no longer shy, but
would come up to my very feet without starting. The riders
would leap them over my hand, as  Gulliver held it on the ground;
and one of the emperor’s huntsmen, upon a large courser,
took my foot, shoe and all; which was indeed a prodigious
leap.  Gulliver had the good fortune to divert the emperor one day
after a very extraordinary manner.  Gulliver desired he would order
several sticks of two feet high, and the thickness of an
ordinary cane, to be brought me; whereupon his majesty
commanded the master of his woods to give directions accordingly;
and the next morning six woodmen arrived with
as many carriages, drawn by eight horses to each.  Gulliver took
nine of these sticks, and fixing them firmly in the ground
in a quadrangular figure, two feet and a half square,  Gulliver took
four other sticks, and tied them parallel at each corner,
about two feet from the ground; then  Gulliver fastened my handkerchief
to the nine sticks that stood erect; and extended
it on all sides, till it was tight as the top of a drum; and the
four parallel sticks, rising about five inches higher than the
handkerchief, served as ledges on each side. When  Gulliver had
finished my work,  Gulliver desired the emperor to let a troop of
his best horses twenty-four in number, come and exercise
upon this plain. His majesty approved of the proposal, and I
took them up, one by one, in my hands, ready mounted and
armed, with the proper officers to exercise them. As soon
as they got into order they divided into two parties, performed
mock skirmishes, discharged blunt arrows, drew
their swords, fled and pursued, attacked and retired, and in
short discovered the best military discipline  Gulliver ever beheld.
The parallel sticks secured them and their horses from falling
over the stage; and the emperor was so much delighted,
that he ordered this entertainment to be repeated several
days, and once was pleased to be lifted up and give the word
of command; and with great difficulty persuaded even the
empress herself to let me hold her in her close chair within
two yards of the stage, when she was able to take a full view
of the whole performance. It was my good fortune, that no
ill accident happened in these entertainments; only once
a fiery horse, that belonged to one of the captains, pawing
with his hoof, struck a hole in my handkerchief, and his foot
slipping, he overthrew his rider and himself; but  Gulliver immediately
relieved them both, and covering the hole with one
hand,  Gulliver set down the troop with the other, in the same manner
as  Gulliver took them up. The horse that fell was strained in
the left shoulder, but the rider got no hurt; and  Gulliver repaired
my handkerchief as well as  Gulliver could: however,  Gulliver would not
trust to the strength of it any more, in such dangerous enterprises.
About two or three days before  Gulliver was set at liberty, as
 Gulliver was entertaining the court with this kind of feat, there
arrived an express to inform his majesty, that some of his
subjects, riding near the place where  Gulliver was first taken up,
had seen a great black substance lying on the around, very
oddly shaped, extending its edges round, as wide as his majesty’s
bedchamber, and rising up in the middle as high as
a man; that it was no living creature, as they at first apprehended,
for it lay on the grass without motion; and some of
them had walked round it several times; that, by mounting
upon each other’s shoulders, they had got to the top, which
was flat and even, and, stamping upon it, they found that
it was hollow within; that they humbly conceived it might
be something belonging to the man-mountain; and if his
majesty pleased, they would undertake to bring it with only
five horses.  Gulliver presently knew what they meant, and was glad
at heart to receive this intelligence. It seems, upon my first
reaching the shore after our shipwreck,  Gulliver was in such confusion,
that before  Gulliver came to the place where  Gulliver went to sleep,
my hat, which  Gulliver had fastened with a string to my head while
 Gulliver was rowing, and had stuck on all the time  Gulliver was swimming,
fell off after  Gulliver came to land; the string, as  Gulliver conjecture, breaking
by some accident, which  Gulliver never observed, but thought
my hat had been lost at sea.  Gulliver entreated his imperial majesty
to give orders it might be brought to me as soon as possible,
describing to him the use and the nature of it: and the next
day the waggoners arrived with it, but not in a very good
condition; they had bored two holes in the brim, within an
inch and half of the edge, and fastened two hooks in the
holes; these hooks were tied by a long cord to the harness,
and thus my hat was dragged along for above half an English
mile; but, the ground in that country being extremely
smooth and level, it received less damage than  Gulliver expected.
Two days after this adventure, the emperor, having ordered
that part of his army which quarters in and about
his metropolis, to be in readiness, took a fancy of diverting
himself in a very singular manner. He desired  Gulliver would stand
like a Colossus, with my legs as far asunder as  Gulliver conveniently
could. He then commanded his general (who was an old experienced
leader, and a great patron of mine) to draw up the
troops in close order, and march them under me; the foot by
twenty-four abreast, and the horse by sixteen, with drums
beating, colours flying, and pikes advanced. This body consisted
of three thousand foot, and a thousand horse. His
majesty gave orders, upon pain of death, that every soldier
in his march should observe the strictest decency with regard
to my person; which however could not prevent some
of the younger officers from turning up their eyes as they
passed under me: and, to confess the truth, my breeches
were at that time in so ill a condition, that they afforded
some opportunities for laughter and admiration.
 Gulliver had sent so many memorials and petitions for my liberty,
that his majesty at length mentioned the matter, first
in the cabinet, and then in a full council; where it was opposed
by none, except Skyresh Bolgolam, who was pleased,
without any provocation, to be my mortal enemy. But it was
carried against him by the whole board, and confirmed by
the emperor. That minister was galbet, or admiral of the
realm, very much in his master’s confidence, and a person
well versed in affairs, but of a morose and sour complexion.
However, he was at length persuaded to comply; but prevailed
that the articles and conditions upon which  Gulliver should
be set free, and to which  Gulliver must swear, should be drawn up
by himself. These articles were brought to me by Skyresh
Bolgolam in person attended by two under-secretaries, and
several persons of distinction. After they were read,  Gulliver was
demanded to swear to the performance of them; first in the
manner of my own country, and afterwards in the method
prescribed by their laws; which was, to hold my right foot
in my left hand, and to place the middle finger of my right
hand on the crown of my head, and my thumb on the tip of
my right ear. But because the reader may be curious to have
some idea of the style and manner of expression peculiar to
that people, as well as to know the article upon which  Gulliver recovered
my liberty,  Gulliver have made a translation of the whole
instrument, word for word, as near as  Gulliver was able, which I
here offer to the public.
‘Golbasto Momarem Evlame Gurdilo Shefin Mully Ully
Gue, most mighty Emperor of Lilliput, delight and terror
of the universe, whose dominions extend five thousand
blustrugs (about twelve miles in circumference) to the extremities
of the globe; monarch of all monarchs, taller than
the sons of men; whose feet press down to the centre, and
whose head strikes against the sun; at whose nod the princes
of the earth shake their knees; pleasant as the spring,
comfortable as the summer, fruitful as autumn, dreadful
as winter: his most sublime majesty proposes to the manmountain,
lately arrived at our celestial dominions, the
following articles, which, by a solemn oath, he shall be
obliged to perform:-
‘1st, The man-mountain shall not depart from our dominions,
without our license under our great seal.
‘2d, He shall not presume to come into our metropolis,
without our express order; at which time, the inhabitants
shall have two hours warning to keep within doors.
‘3d, The said man-mountain shall confine his walks to
our principal high roads, and not offer to walk, or lie down,
in a meadow or field of corn.
‘4th, As he walks the said roads, he shall take the utmost
care not to trample upon the bodies of any of our loving
subjects, their horses, or carriages, nor take any of our subjects
into his hands without their own consent.
‘5th, If an express requires extraordinary despatch, the
man- mountain shall be obliged to carry, in his pocket, the
messenger and horse a six days journey, once in every moon,
and return the said messenger back (if so required) safe to
our imperial presence.
‘6th, He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island
of Blefuscu, and do his utmost to destroy their fleet,
which is now preparing to invade us.
‘7th, That the said man-mountain shall, at his times of
leisure, be aiding and assisting to our workmen, in helping
to raise certain great stones, towards covering the wall of
the principal park, and other our royal buildings.
‘8th, That the said man-mountain shall, in two moons’
time, deliver in an exact survey of the circumference of our
dominions, by a computation of his own paces round the
coast.
‘Lastly, That, upon his solemn oath to observe all the
above articles, the said man-mountain shall have a daily allowance
of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1724
of our subjects, with free access to our royal person, and
other marks of our favour. Given at our palace at Belfaborac,
the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign.’
 Gulliver swore and subscribed to these articles with great cheerfulness
and content, although some of them were not so
honourable as  Gulliver could have wished; which proceeded wholly
from the malice of Skyresh Bolgolam, the high-admiral:
whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked, and I
was at full liberty. The emperor himself, in person, did me
the honour to be by at the whole ceremony.  Gulliver made my acknowledgements
by prostrating myself at his majesty’s feet:
but he commanded me to rise; and after many gracious
expressions, which, to avoid the censure of vanity,  Gulliver shall
not repeat, he added, ‘that he hoped  Gulliver should prove a useful
servant, and well deserve all the favours he had already
conferred upon me, or might do for the future.’
The reader may please to observe, that, in the last article
of the recovery of my liberty, the emperor stipulates to
allow me a quantity of meat and drink sufficient for the support
of 1724 Lilliputians. Some time after, asking a friend
at court how they came to fix on that determinate number,
he told me that his majesty’s mathematicians, having taken
the height of my body by the help of a quadrant, and finding
it to exceed theirs in the proportion of twelve to one,
they concluded from the similarity of their bodies, that
mine must contain at least 1724 of theirs, and consequently
would require as much food as was necessary to support
that number of Lilliputians. By which the reader may conceive
an idea of the ingenuity of that people, as well as the
prudent and exact economy of so great a prince.
